# APCSA Aiden's Sudoku Generator
**Student Name: Aiden Jiang**\
*This project generates a completed Sudoku Board.* 

## How to run this program
To run this program, pull this repository. You can open this repository in an IDE and run it using the IDE's built in run command. You can also go to the where this file is stored in command line, and run it using the follwing. The result will be outputted in Command Line. 
'''
javac SudokuGenerator.java
java SudokuGenerator
'''

## Summary of how the Sudoku board is generated
The Sudoku Board is generated by, first, filling in the diagonal 3x3 matrices. These matrices are filled in with random unique numbers from 1-9. After these matrices are finish generating, the program process to recursively generate the remaining 3x3 matrices filled with 0. For each zeroed element in the grid, the program generates a scrambled list of 1-9, as the solutions. The program runs through each element inside that list, and checks if that current element is vaild, according to Sudoku's rules. If the number is not, then the program proceeds to the next number. If the numbers run out, then the program goes back to the previous element, and tries the next number in the previous element's list. If the number does work, then the program places that number and process to the next element in the board until all zeros in the board are filled. 

## Summary of how the Sudoku Game is generated
After the Sudoku Board is completely generated, the program copies this board into another board. This board is, then, randomly remove of numbers. Each number that is removed is check for it's uniqueness; that is, if the board has a single solution. If the removed number keeps the board unique, the number is zeroed and the program proceeds. The program stops until the number of required zeros (spaces for the user) is reached. After this, the player board is outputted to the user, asking the user to input the position and the value the user wants to modify. If the position is vaild, then the value is changed. If not, then the user is asked again to reinput a position. At any point, if the user solves the puzzle, meaning that the copied board and the original board are the same, or the user chooses to give up, the program ends, solution is generated, and the win or lose message is outputted. 

## List of files:
SudokuGenerator.java\
README.md\
dependabot.yml *java container files for codespace*\
devcontainer.json *java container files for codespace*
